Sora Device Client
=================

<!-- vim-markdown-toc GFM -->

* [Installing](#installing)
  * [Dependencies](#dependencies)
    * [Buf](#buf)
    * [Python Interpreter](#python-interpreter)
    * [Python Dependencies](#python-dependencies)
* [Command-Line Client](#command-line-client)
  * [Configuration file](#configuration-file)
  * [Running](#running)
  * [Data file](#data-file)

<!-- vim-markdown-toc -->

The Sora Device Client provides a set of simple tools to connect your device to Sora.

The Sora Device Client consists of:

 - A command-line client - the simplest way to connect to Sora
 - A Python client library - for deeper integration and customization

# Installing
## Dependencies

You should only need to follow these steps once per machine you are setting up to run the sora-device-client on.

### Buf

The Sora API uses a gRPC interface and the API libraries are built by
[buf.build](https://buf.build/).

This requires the `buf` tool. Full installation instructions and options are
[here](https://docs.buf.build/installation), or simply
```bash
brew install bufbuild/buf/buf
```

Then the api libraries can be generated with:
```bash
make grpc
```

### Python Interpreter
You need to install python 3.10.
```bash
brew install python@3.10
```
Although we recommend using something like [pyenv](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv)
or [asdf](https://asdf-vm.com/) to manage your python versions.

### Python Dependencies

We manage python dependencies with [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/).

They are recorded in `pyproject.toml`. Note that there are dev and prod dependencies.

You will need to install the poetry cli to use it
```bash
brew install poetry
```
And then install the dependencies:
```bash
poetry install
```

# Command-Line Client

## Configuration file
Copy the default config file to one of the location in the table below. For example:
```bash
mkdir -p ~/.config/sora-device-client
cp sora_device_client/config_example.toml ~/.config/sora-device-client/config.toml
```

------------------------------------------------------------
Mac OS X:             | `~/Library/Preferences/sora-device-client`
Unix:                 | `~/.config/sora-device-client`     # or in `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/sora-device-client`, if defined
Win XP (not roaming): | `C:\Documents and Settings\<username>\Application Data\SwiftNav\sora-device-client`
Win XP (roaming):     | `C:\Documents and Settings\<username>\Local Settings\Application Data\SwiftNav\sora-device-client`
Win 7  (not roaming): | `C:\Users\<username>\AppData\Local\SwiftNav\sora-device-client`
Win 7  (roaming):     | `C:\Users\<username>\AppData\Roaming\SwiftNav\sora-device-client`

Source: https://github.com/ActiveState/appdirs/blob/193a2cbba58cce2542882fcedd0e49f6763672ed/appdirs.py#L342-L345

You will most likely have to edit the `[driver]` section to work with the location source for your system.

## Running
To run the command-line client, launch a shell from poetry:
```bash
poetry shell
```
In the new shell, the `sora` command will be in the path:
```bash
sora --help
```

## Data file
There is also a data file called `data.toml` that is used to store data that is generated by `sora login`. Typically, running `sora logout` will clear this file.
If you need to manually remove it, its location typically is:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Mac OS X:             | `~/Library/Application Support/sora-device-client`
Unix:                 | `~/.local/share/sora-device-client`    # or in `$XDG_DATA_HOME/sora-device-client`, if defined
Win XP (not roaming): | `C:\Documents and Settings\<username>\Application Data\SwiftNav\sora-device-client`
Win XP (roaming):     | `C:\Documents and Settings\<username>\Local Settings\Application Data\SwiftNav\sora-device-client`
Win 7  (not roaming): | `C:\Users\<username>\AppData\Local\SwiftNav\sora-device-client`
Win 7  (roaming):     | `C:\Users\<username>\AppData\Roaming\SwiftNav\sora-device-client`

Source: https://github.com/ActiveState/appdirs/blob/193a2cbba58cce2542882fcedd0e49f6763672ed/appdirs.py#L65-L71
